[Blazor] Security - Server - Additional security abstractions section rework (#34056)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/security/server/index.md

If the app must capture users for custom services or react to updates to the user, see <xref:blazor/security/server/additional-scenarios#circuit-handler-to-capture-users-for-custom-services>.

> Blazor differs from a traditional server-rendered web apps that make new HTTP requests with cookies on every page navigation. Authentication is checked during navigation events. However, cookies aren't involved. Cookies are only sent when making an HTTP request to a server, which isn't what happens when the user navigates in a Blazor app. During navigation, the user's authentication state is checked within the Blazor circuit, which you can update at any time on the server using the [`RevalidatingAuthenticationStateProvider` abstraction](#supporting-authentication-state-providers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blazor differs from a traditional server-rendered web apps that make new HTTP requests with cookies on every page navigation. Authentication is checked during navigation events. However, cookies aren't involved. Cookies are only sent when making an HTTP request to a server, which isn't what happens when the user navigates in a Blazor app. During navigation, the user's authentication state is checked within the Blazor circuit, which you can update at any time on the server using the [`RevalidatingAuthenticationStateProvider` abstraction](#additional-authentication-state-providers).
```

For guidance on general state management outside of ASP.NET Core Identity, see <xref:blazor/state-management?pivots=server>.

> ## Supporting authentication state providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Additional authentication state providers
```

> Two additional classes derived from <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> help with managing authentication state on server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two additional classes derived from <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> help with managing authentication state on the server:
```

> * <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Server.ServerAuthenticationStateProvider> ([reference source](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Components/Endpoints/src/DependencyInjection/ServerAuthenticationStateProvider.cs)): A default  <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> used by the Blazor framework to manage authentication state on the server, when a more specific provider is not registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Server.ServerAuthenticationStateProvider> ([reference source](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Components/Endpoints/src/DependencyInjection/ServerAuthenticationStateProvider.cs)): A default  <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> used by the Blazor framework to manage authentication state on the server, when a more specific provider isn't registered.
```

> * <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Server.ServerAuthenticationStateProvider> ([reference source](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Components/Endpoints/src/DependencyInjection/ServerAuthenticationStateProvider.cs)): A default  <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> used by the Blazor framework to manage authentication state on the server, when a more specific provider isn't registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Server.ServerAuthenticationStateProvider> ([reference source](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Components/Endpoints/src/DependencyInjection/ServerAuthenticationStateProvider.cs)): A default  <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> used by the Blazor framework to manage authentication state on the server when a more specific provider isn't registered.
```

> * <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Server.RevalidatingServerAuthenticationStateProvider> ([reference source](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Components/Server/src/Circuits/RevalidatingServerAuthenticationStateProvider.cs)): A base class for <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> services that receive an authentication state from the host environment and revalidate it at regular intervals. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Server.RevalidatingServerAuthenticationStateProvider> ([reference source](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/Components/Server/src/Circuits/RevalidatingServerAuthenticationStateProvider.cs)): A base class for <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Authorization.AuthenticationStateProvider> services that receive an authentication state from the host environment and revalidate it at regular intervals.
```
